I don't care how old you are I don't
care how long you've been doing the
thing that you've been doing you're
watching this video because you're
trying to figure out if there's
something else you're supposed to be
doing you're trying to figure out what
your thing is to find your passion your
purpose or maybe you've been doing the
same thing for quite a while and it's
not lighting you up anymore and you got
to figure something else out but you're
afraid when you think about making this
transition it's scary you don't want to
get it wrong or maybe for some reason
you think that you're like too old to
make this kind of a change well you're
not my name is shelene Johnson welcome
to build your
tribe
now before we get started I've got a
special favor to ask of you it'll take
just two seconds please make sure you're
subscribed if you're watching on YouTube
you need to hit the Subscribe button and
the little bell button little
notification cuz if you don't hit that
for some reason YouTube does not tell
you that there's a new video but I would
love for you to subscribe and lastly
drop us a comment and let Brock and I
know what topics you'd like for us to
explore in our next video billions and
billions literally of people search this
exact topic on Google every single year
and I think it's because we've just been
like inundated with this idea this
belief that we all have this grandiose
purpose like the skies are going to part
in magically your purpose your passion
the thing that you were called to do is
going to appear I think we also feel
like with all the messaging like on
social media we see people who it feels
like they have found their calling it
feels like the reason why they're known
the reason why they have significance is
because they discovered their thing I
think we really overg glamorize this
idea and we mystify it that supposedly
there's like one special thing that like
when you discover it everything's going
to make sense you're going to make tons
of money people are going to know you
you're going to feel like Mother Teresa
you're going to make a difference in
this world you're going to make a Major
Impact you have to find your thing but
I'm here to tell you that is not true
and in this this episode of build your
tribe I'm going to give you four steps
to figure it out and I'm also going to
share with you some stories that I think
are going to inspire you like to truly
believe that it's not too late number
one and number two that you can change
your mind at any point in fact you can
have more than one purpose more than one
thing that you're able to make a
significant impact with again I'm going
to give you a four-step simplified
process to do this but even after you
listen to these four steps if you still
are feeling a little insecure about the
idea if you're still not 100% confident
about the direction you need to go in I
will place a link below this episode to
a a questionnaire that I've developed
for my own students and that I make my
students those ones who it's like I can
see it for them but they can't see it I
have them go through this questionnaire
and there's a lot of personal
information you're going to like
basically you're going to take an
inventory of who you are what your
interests are and by answering these
series of questions it's kind of
interesting how like when you do this in
your own handwriting which is what I
want you to do I want you to download it
I want you to print it and I want you to
carve out some time to answer the
questions because when you do that in
your own handwriting versus just like
letting it bounce around in your head
it's amazing how clear the picture
becomes for you okay that link will be
below in our show description but the
first thing I want to tell you is that
you likely have more than one calling or
purpose my personal belief and
experience is such that we all have
multiple things and multiple interests
that could be our thing and when I say
our thing it could be the thing that
lights us up the thing that gives us
purpose the thing that makes us feel
fulfilled and significant but because we
overd dramatize this idea the idea of
having like finding your purpose your
calling we often fail to take that first
step because we feel like well I'm kind
of interested in this but it's not that
big of a deal like like this can't be my
life's work my life's calling I remember
when I first started teaching Fitness
classes back in you know like in my
early 20s when I when I really decided
okay I want to I want to turn this into
a thing if someone had told me then that
I had to declare that thing teaching
Fitness my purpose and my calling I
would not have done so because I
wouldn't have thought it was big enough
in fact I was all my life intending to
be an attorney I graduated from Michigan
State University my degree is in just
morality and constitutional democracy I
had taken the ls set I was working as a
paralal I was working as as in a law
firm my goal was to become a loyer that
sounded like purpose that sounded like
yeah that's my thing and so I kind of
started to identify that like I kind of
believed that I would have significance
if I picked something really big and
respected and at the time I just thought
if I told people my thing was Fitness
that they would go like it's not a
calling or a purpose it's like a hobby
so I caution you I want to warn you that
you don't want to overthink this you
don't want to make it a big thing like
you have to start with one thing so you
can progress to the next thing and you
never know if that little thing is going
to end up being a big thing I had no
idea that teaching Fitness classes would
eventually lead to me selling tens of
millions of exercise DVDs that blows my
mind I couldn't get Hy at first like no
one would hire me at first I wasn't even
that good at it I had to figure out how
to get good at it it wasn't the thing
that like I felt like I was born to do
in fact I didn't think I was that great
at it I just really enjoyed taking
things that were hard and complicated
and not that fun and making him really
fun and I enjoyed the process of getting
better at it and I enjoyed creating a
type of workout that other people hadn't
seen before hadn't done before I didn't
plan on it being such a big deal I
didn't plan on it taking off but since
that time I've had lots of other things
that have become my thing in fact you're
probably listening to this episode of
build your tribe because you know me as
a business and marketing expert yet in a
previous lifetime I was much better
known for my fitness videos but
eventually and I you know I've told this
whole story of like how and why I
transitioned out of the fitness industry
in fact I'm going to link to an episode
of the shellene show that's my personal
podcast where I like talk about life
stuff uh this one's just all business
and marketing on my personal podcast
I've told the story of why I left the
fitness industry and you might be
watching or listening to this episode
because you're in that same head space
where you're like I don't feel like I
belong here anymore like my work here is
done have you ever done something where
it's like everyone's like oh you're so
good at that you're like but it's it's
not challenging to me so you lose lose
your passion you you lose your spark you
lose your joy from something that at one
point did give you Joy and I think
that's probably a really good sign that
it is time for you to Pivot that doesn't
mean quit I didn't immediately quit I
made the pivot in my head and I started
that transition before I kind of
announced that transition and I think
that's something you can do too it's
much less scary versus like if you're
like I am so sick of being I don't know
I'm so sick of being a nurse and I've
always wanted to work with children and
horses you you don't have to quit your
job in fact I recommend you not do
something that's that financially
devastating make a slow transition
especially if you don't know if the
thing that you're thinking you want to
do is something you're actually going to
enjoy doing eventually I did leave the
fitness industry entirely but I made the
transition slowly into something that
was a serious interest and passion for
me that was just like bubbling up inside
and that was to teach other people
specifically women how to use online
marketing like how to grow their
personal brand how to take the thing
that you're trying to figure out and
like help the world find out about it
like how to make money from this thing
that you actually love doing right
because I figured out how to do that and
I'd done it in more than just the
fitness industry I'd done it in several
Industries and I'd helped other people
do it I'm like there there's a process
and there's a system to learn the right
order in which to do these things online
and I want to teach people that and I
became really passionate about it so
then I transitioned and then I I only
marketed myself as a a business and
marketing expert now if you are in a
stage where you kind of already know
what your thing is but you're having a
difficult time figuring out how to Brand
yourself I recently have done two
episodes on personal branding and I will
link to both of those Below in our show
notes if you're watching on YouTube you
can check them out here these are great
episodes to start with especially if
you're someone who's like okay I got it
I just I don't know how to position
myself but for the rest of you it's
about figuring out what that thing is
but I I just before I get to those four
steps for you I want to reiterate how
important it is that you remember that
you can change your mind anytime you
want to this is your life and if there's
something else that you are feeling
passionate about and called to do you
need to do that now I don't want you to
jump ship and Abandon Ship like every
year you're never going to get any
traction you got to you got to stick to
things long enough and be persistent in
order for people to know about it and in
order for you to make any money at it
people need to know that that's what
you're doing so The Branding and
marketing I've been doing for probably
the last uh 10 12 years and in the last
year or so again this is not something I
decided I think sometimes our thing
chooses us we don't choose it right so
in the last couple of years I've just
become like
so fascinating because my own Journey
with hormones and the lack of
information and resources that women
have around per menopause like the from
like about age 36 to 56 like that group
of women there's like no information
available I mean it's just not readily
available it's such an outdated area
that most doctors discourage women from
having their hormones tested the rate of
anxiety and depression and mood swings
and the changes in your body it's it's
like a roller coaster right and we we
freak women out and we get them all
paranoid about menopause when truthfully
it's the like 7 to 10 years before
menopause that is the true horror show
like literally and I've become so
passionate about this because of my
community on the that's part of the
shellene show when I started talking
about this and I'm working with my own
hormone doctorine I'm figuring out my
own hormones and I'm you know able to
transition very smooth smoothly into
menopause because I had that knowledge
because I was doing that research
because I was working with a doctor who
specialized in hormone replacement
therapy and other natural ways to
balance your hormones I I was talking
about it a lot and I I found that there
were many women who were just completely
in the dark and I found myself wanting
to talk about it and research more and
talk about it and and almost like
wanting to be an I don't want to say a
know it all but like you just want to
spread the word and the reason why share
that story with you is because now I I
feel like I'm kind of going to you're
hearing this for the first time I it's
something going to step away from
business and marketing it's not that I'm
ever going to step away from my push
journals or you know the other things
like podcasting that are also business
centers but I definitely am going to
step into and spend a lot more time
helping women in this area because it's
my thing for right now so keep that in
mind you have many purposes that you're
going to experience in in your lifetime
you may have gone through a season where
your purpose was to raise healthy
confident self-sufficient children that
was your thing for That season and you
may have gone through a season where it
was your thing to care for an aging
parent and you may have gone through a
season where it was your thing to help
others figure out something like or
maybe there was a time where your thing
was figuring out how to code websites or
teaching sign language like you go
through different seasons of your life
you're not ever just focused on one
thing and I find that many times our own
personal challenges evolve into passions
they evolve into things that we they're
topics that we can't stop talking about
can't stop thinking about and through
sometimes trial and error we become not
the expert but an expert in the way we
needed to solve the
problem do not be afraid of thinking of
yourself as an expert you're not ever
going to be I don't care what the topic
is you'll never be the expert but you
can and should consider yourself an
expert in the way you solve the problem
for you or an expert in the way you
approach this thing whether it's
knitting or teaching people how to use
Instagram like you have your own unique
way of doing it like that's Brock's
expertise is teaching Instagram but he's
not the Instagram expert he's one of the
experts and you can be one of the
experts in that thing that you're very
passionate about in this season in your
life and remember you're going to have
future seasons and future challenges
that are going to reveal to you purpose
and Challenge and things that right now
you haven't yet even experienced there's
so many ways that your life can have
meaning and significance but a lot of
times that thing is going to find you
now we're going to jump into my
four-step process and the first step in
this process is identifying the things
that right now in this season you are
passionate about it doesn't mean that
it's your life's calling it just means
that you are like almost obsessed like
you love it you can't get enough of it
you love talking about it you love
talking to other people about it you
love researching it you love doing it
you love being in it you love knowing
about it like these are the three things
that you you geek out on okay so make a
list of the top three things they're
just interesting don't worry about if
it's big enough don't worry about if
it's too niched don't worry about if
it's weird not just the first three
things that come to mind step two is to
then ask yourself and this is really
important because how you answer step
two will make a big difference in how we
approach step three but in step two you
have to ask yourself if you need to make
money from this thing if that's the goal
then how you select which one you go all
in on is a little different so if right
now you're like no I I'm retired I am so
wealthy I have Investments and I'm I'm
done
worrying about making money I just want
to make a difference I just really want
to do what lights me up and what sets me
on fire and I don't care I'm into
philanthropy I'm going to give all my
money away like if that's you Oprah then
this is going to be really fun for you
if however you're like uh no yeah
shelene I definitely would like to make
more money and I would love to make
money doing something that I'm
passionate about something that I'm
really interested in something that
lights me up okay if that the later is
your answer you're like I need to make
money which is I think is probably most
people then you need to look at those
three things that you listed that are
all interests of yours and you have to
ask yourself this is my this is just my
personal opinion this is my personal
expertise expert way of helping people
figure this out is you look at those
three and you go okay which one of these
three right now based on the timing
based on whatever day and year and month
that you are listening to this episode
which one of these There's an
opportunity like there's a need in the
market people are interested in this
thing so let's say for example your
three interests include number one you
love coding websites and you want to
teach other people how to code websites
number two you love indoor cycling and
you want to develop a cycling workout
like pelaton and Market it online and
number three is you love trading sports
cards and you want to teach other gen
xers how to do a better job of selecting
valuable sports cards okay you've got
those three things then and I I know I
picked really random things but you
would want to look at those three and go
like okay which one of these is primed
right now it's like there's a great
opportunity there's a need in the market
well it's not coding websites even if
you love that like that ain't it right
and creating an indoor cycling program
do your research like that maybe that's
a maybe right but the one that where
you're realizing like oh gosh there's
nobody know knows how to like gen xers
don't know how
to sell cards because they all grew up
selling and and collecting sports cards
and and they just don't understand now
how it's done it's it's different and
how much fun it could be for them but
they have to learn this new approach
right okay so you've got two like we
already know one of them ain't going to
make any money so we're going to have to
scratch that one but the other two now
we need to do do some research so take
the one or two that you're like oh I
think there's an opportunity here and
start doing some research Arch figure
out who else is doing it and remember
just because there's like a hundred
other people doing it doesn't mean that
there's not still a huge need you have
to look at the demand you have to look
at like how can you help this segment of
the population that has not yet been
served in this area and how how would
you make money in this area so to go
back to my own example when I was faced
with this decision like okay I've got to
pick a thing I need to pick a thing this
is back in my late 20s early 30s yeah
yeah late 20s I was already working as a
pargal I was already working in Fitness
I was also trying to sell ebooks and I
was also trying to do workshops at
hotels for women who wanted to learn how
to start a business from home well that
just wasn't working I was trying and
trying and trying and there wasn't
social media at the time so that was not
working for me I didn't have the chops
people weren't interested in starting
their own businesses at we're talking
like in the late '90s early 2000s so
that that just it wasn't as viable I was
working in Fitness and I knew I couldn't
make much money as a fitness instructor
but I was like there's this way that I'm
teaching this class that everyone else
is struggling to create their own
workouts like there's a real need yes
there were other people doing it there
was jazzer size there was body pump
there was you know a few others but
there wasn't anyone doing it the way I
was doing it and I I knew that there was
a huge need because so many people would
tell me oh my gosh I wish I had your
routine I wish I had your music I wish
you could give me your choreography so
pay attention to the things where you're
like okay there's a need there and then
you have to ask yourself where can I
make money the quickest so I knew that
some of the other things that I was
looking at I didn't have the same income
potential I knew there wasn't as big of
a need and I did my research and then I
also was considering so as a third
option which I think you need to think
about is I also thought about starting a
snowboarding apparel company now there
was a need there was a a potential to
make huge amount of money but as I
started doing my research I knew it was
way too much work and after meeting with
another person who owned a snowboarding
apparel company and interviewing him and
like really picking his brain and
understanding like what was involved it
was very clear to me that I did not want
that lifestyle I didn't want to take
something that was such a a relief such
a passion for my family something that
was so fun for us and that would mean
that I'd be turning that thing into a
business and it was just the wrong
decision for me so if step two is
answering the question do I need to make
money from this and the answer is yes
then step three is then doing your
research and really through a process of
elimination figuring out which of these
is probably the best two for you to go
in a little
deeper step four is to then go deeper on
one or two of these just one or two not
more so much so that you realize like
okay yes yes you're getting confirmation
like yes this is the thing I want to do
yes I'm interested in this yes this is
what I like doing yes I can make money
from this and then you go all in on one
okay this is a process and none of it
will be crystal clear for you until you
take action you can't get where you need
to go until you start and if you need a
very clear destination if you need a
perfect perfect blueprint a perfect map
of how things are going to go you won't
find it it doesn't happen that way you
just have to go for it you have to
realize that you get to pick your thing
your thing doesn't just magically
doesn't no one's going to knock on the
door and say like here's your thing like
you just have to pick it and go for it
and then stick with it pick it and then
stick with it it was probably a year and
a half before I realized like okay okay
yes this Fitness thing it's it's working
and it wasn't huge it was still a
struggle but like I could feel that
traction I could feel the excitement I
could feel the ground swell and I had to
stay persistent I had to stay consistent
I couldn't waver you can't go back like
once you set your sights and you decide
for yourself this is your thing I want
you to go all in and I'm not going to
sugarcoat this and tell you like yeah
for six months like no go all in for a
year or more literally go so far in that
people they start talking about like
yeah have you seen what Judy's doing
yeah like it's all she talks about now
is knitting that's it and how she wants
to teach this next Generation how to
knit that's all she it's all she's
posting about it's all she's talking
about and that's like if I'm going to
give you a fifth step it's it's actually
still part of part four but like step
four is you you when I say you got to go
wall in I mean that means on your social
that means you're joining Facebook
groups that means that you're going on
Reddit threads you're watching YouTube
videos like you are going all in you're
immersing yourself so that you become
your own expert you become someone who's
obsessed with self-education you're
educating yourself on this topic so that
you feel like you know so much it's
going to light you up because it's
something you're passionate about and
you'll soon start to see other people
this is a good thing who are who are
making money doing that thing that you
want to do and you can use them to role
model you watch what they're doing you
watch what is working what they aren't
offering what they're missing how you
can differentiate yourself and use them
as your model like it's not obviously
don't come copy but I'm saying like it's
the greatest gift of all is the internet
like anything that you can dream of that
you're thinking like could I even do
that could I make money teaching people
how to play Billiards online I promise
you no matter how Wild your idea is
there's somebody out there who's doing
it now again if at this point you're
still struggling with finding Clarity
and you don't even know what those three
things are I encourage you to download
the link that I've put in our
description for this episode that will
help you to find your thing listen it is
my goal to be brief to be bright to make
it fun and then be done ladies and
gentlemen we are
[Music]
done